Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video we're going to be
asking the user to confirm
that the really want to exit
if they have unsaved changes.
So let's jump right in it.
We're gonna go and create a new function.
I'm just gonna call it,
create it down here,
and call it confirm quit.
And what this is gonna do
is it's going to start off
as unsaved equal false.
And then it's gonna cycle through the tabs
and if anyone of them is unsaved
it's gonna turn this to true.
So we'll do for tab in notebook dot tabs.
We will get the current widget,
which is tab widget is root dot name
to widget of the tab.
And again we are using the tab name here
and then we're getting the actual
widget using the name to widget method.
Then we are going to do that the content
is equal to the tab widget dot get 1.0
to end minus one C.
And then we're gonna check the contents.
So if the hash of the content
is not equal to the text contents,
SDR of tab widget sorry.
I'm actually gonna rename this
to text widget just because
it makes it much clearer
of what it actually is.
Then unsaved is true
because they are different.
So we can now break.
If they are the same,
that means that this file is not unsaved
and it should have the little asterisk
beside its name.
So we won't do this.
And next up if unsaved
then we're going to ask the user
to confirm whether they really want to exit.
So we'll say confirm
is message box dot ask yes no.
And we will pass in a message.
You have unsaved changes,
are you sure you want to quit?
Then we will place an icon
which is the string question.
And finally we will have a title for the window,
which is going to be confirm quit.
So if not confirm,
we're going to return.
Otherwise we're gonna do root dot destroy.
And that's gonna close our application.
Now we do have to import message box.
So go ahead and do that
just from TK inter there.
So what this is doing,
just to review,
is it's starting off as unsaved false.
Which means that all the files
currently open are saved.
Then it's gonna cycle through
all the tabs getting the text widget,
getting the content,
and checking it against
our text contents dictionary.
If any of them don't match,
that means there is at least
one file that is unsaved.
So we set unsaved to true,
we break,
and then if unsaved is true,
then we ask the user to confirm.
If the confirm saying
that they do not want to quit,
that means they click no.
Then confirm will be false.
And then we will just return
and not run root destroy.
However if they do not say no,
that means that not confirm will be false
so we will then root destroy.
Next up we do have to add
a way of calling that function.
And we're gonna do that
with another menu item.
So we are not going to run this whenever
you press the close button.
We're gonna run this when
you use the menu to exit.
So we'll say file menu at command.
The label is going to be exit.
And the command is confirm quit.
Let's press play
and we'll type an H
and then I will press file exit.
And this is what it asks me.
You have unsaved changes,
are you sure you want to quit?
And I will say yes.
So then it exits.
But similarly if we type H
and then we exit,
and we say no,
then that just returns and it doesn't
actually terminate the application.
Hopefully that makes sense.
I am actually going
to remove this print from here
since we're printing the frame names there
or the text area names there.
We don't wanna do that.
So that's it for this video.
I hope you've learned something.
Thank you for joining me
and I'll see you in the next one.